Fixed #34074 -- Added headers argument to RequestFactory and Client classes. (#16163)
django/django: docs/topics/testing/tools.txt

Use the ``django.test.Client`` class to make requests.

> .. class:: Client(enforce_csrf_checks=False, raise_request_exception=True, json_encoder=DjangoJSONEncoder, headers=None, **defaults)

Reviewer: Don't forget to make the `headers` parameter keyword-only everywhere in the docs after following through on Adam's request.

    It requires no arguments at time of construction. However, you can use
    keyword arguments to specify some default headers through the ``META``
    keys, or the ``headers`` argument. For example, these two examples are
    equivalent and will send a ``User-Agent`` HTTP header in each request::

        >>> c = Client(HTTP_USER_AGENT='Mozilla/5.0')

    and

>         >>> c = Client(headers={'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0'})

Reviewer: Make this example using `headers` the first of the two.

>     It requires no arguments at time of construction. However, you can specify
>     some default headers through the ``headers`` parameter, or using keyword
>     arguments through the ``META`` keys. For example, these two examples are
>     equivalent and will send a ``User-Agent`` HTTP header in each request::
> 
>         >>> c = Client(headers={'User-Agent': 'Mozilla/5.0'})
> 
>     and
> 
>         >>> c = Client(HTTP_USER_AGENT='Mozilla/5.0')

Reviewer 2: Some tweaks...

1. The opening sentence was super awkward. Turned into a more standard sentence describing what "the thing" (`Client`) is, plus an intro to the arguments.
2. Changed from prompt examples to standard python - it would be usual to use the test client from a prompt
3. Updated from Mozilla 5.0 to modern cURL as our example User-Agent. Browser User-Agent strings are a complete mess, but at least cURL remains simple.
4. Changed the arbitrary keyword docs to not override an HTTP header. We don't want to recommend `HTTP_*` going forwards for headers, or confuse people with "there are two ways to do things", so I think it's simplest that we show an example that's not covered by `headers`. Readers can still see from the WSGI spec that `HTTP_*` sets headers.

```suggestion
    A testing HTTP client. Takes several arguments that can customize behavior.
    
    ``headers`` allows you to specify default headers that will be sent with
    every request. For example, to set a ``User-Agent`` header::

        client = Client(headers={'User-Agent': 'curl/7.79.1'})

    Arbitrary keyword arguments in ``**defaults`` set WSGI `environ
    variables`_. For example, to set the script name::

        client = Client(SCRIPT_NAME='/app/')

    .. _environ variables: https://peps.python.org/pep-3333/#environ-variables
```

What do you think? Perhaps we could still have a sentence pointing out that `HTTP_*` sets headers to avoid people reading tests getting lost?

Author: > Perhaps we could still have a sentence pointing out that HTTP_* sets headers to avoid people reading tests getting lost?

I think that's a good idea 👍  We should not completely omit the `HTTP_*` way, but mention it to know it exists, works, but is not the preferred method anymore.

Use the ``django.test.Client`` class to make requests.

.. class:: Client(enforce_csrf_checks=False, raise_request_exception=True, json_encoder=DjangoJSONEncoder, *, headers=None, **defaults)

    A testing HTTP client. Takes several arguments that can customize behavior.

    ``headers`` allows you to specify default headers that will be sent with
    every request. For example, to set a ``User-Agent`` header::

        client = Client(headers={'user-agent': 'curl/7.79.1'})

    Arbitrary keyword arguments in ``**defaults`` set WSGI `environ
    variables`_. For example, to set the script name::

        client = Client(SCRIPT_NAME='/app/')

    .. _environ variables: https://peps.python.org/pep-3333/#environ-variables

    .. note::

        Keyword arguments starting with a ``HTTP_`` prefix are set as headers,

>         but the new ``headers`` parameter should be preferred for readability.

Reviewer: At some point this will no longer be "new". 😄 

```suggestion
        but the ``headers`` parameter should be preferred for readability.
```

    Once you have a ``Client`` instance, you can call any of the following
    methods:

>     .. method:: Client.get(path, data=None, follow=False, secure=False, *, headers=None, **extra)

Reviewer 3: `Client` has its own implementation of `get()`, `post()`, `head()`, `options()`, `put()`, `patch()`, `delete()`, and `trace()` methods so signatures didn't change. As far as I'm aware, we should add the `headers` kwarg to the `Client`'s methods.

Author: Wouldn't it make sense to change the `Client` methods to add the `*` and `headers` parameter? 🤔 
I guess it would provide a more explicit interface for users of `Client`.

Reviewer 3: > Wouldn't it make sense to change the Client methods to add the * and headers parameter?

Yes, that's what I was trying to ask for :smile:

            /customers/details/?name=fred&age=7

        The ``headers`` parameter and ``extra`` keyword arguments parameter can
        be used to specify headers to be sent in the request. For example::

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},
            ...       HTTP_ACCEPT='application/json')

        or

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},

>             ...       headers={'Accept': 'application/json'})

Reviewer 2: document `headers` first as the canonical way to pass headers

Then something like “Arbitrary keyword arguments set WSGI [environ variables](https://peps.python.org/pep-3333/#environ-variables). For example, headers are set with `HTTP_*` syntax: [example]”. There will still be rare use cases for setting other environ variables.

Also check against ASGI spec...

            /customers/details/?name=fred&age=7

        The ``headers`` parameter can be used to specify headers to be sent in
        the request. For example::

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},
            ...       headers={'Accept': 'application/json'})

>         Arbitrary keyword arguments set WSGI `environ variables`_. For example,
>         headers are set with the ``HTTP_`` prefix::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Arbitrary keyword arguments set WSGI `environ variables`_. For example,
        headers can be set with the ``HTTP_`` prefix::
```

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},
            ...       HTTP_ACCEPT='application/json')

        .. _environ variables: https://peps.python.org/pep-3333/#environ-variables

        ...will send the HTTP header ``HTTP_ACCEPT`` to the details view, which
        is a good way to test code paths that use the

>         :meth:`django.http.HttpRequest.accepts()` method.

Reviewer 2: can we move these sentences up to underneath the example using `headers`?

        .. admonition:: CGI specification

            The headers sent via ``headers`` and ``**extra`` should follow CGI_
            specification. For example, emulating a different "Host" header as
            sent in the HTTP request from the browser to the server should be
            passed as ``HTTP_HOST``.

>             .. _CGI: https://www.w3.org/CGI/

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this CGI admonition since we now link to WSGI environ vars, which are based on CGI, and it will be irrelevant for using `headers`

It's also not true that `headers` should follow CGI

            /customers/details/?name=fred&age=7

        The ``headers`` parameter can be used to specify headers to be sent in
        the request. For example::

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},
            ...       headers={'Accept': 'application/json'})

        ...will send the HTTP header ``HTTP_ACCEPT`` to the details view, which
        is a good way to test code paths that use the
        :meth:`django.http.HttpRequest.accepts()` method.

>         Arbitrary keyword arguments set WSGI `environ variables`_. For example,
>         headers can be set with the ``HTTP_`` prefix::

Reviewer 2: As above, showing `SCRIPT_NAME` instead of `HTTP_*`:

```suggestion
        Arbitrary keyword arguments set WSGI `environ variables`_. For example,
        headers to set the script name::
```

>             >>> c = Client()
>             >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},
>             ...       HTTP_ACCEPT='application/json')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            client = Client()
            client.get("/", SCRIPT_NAME='/app/')
```

Author: If we start removing the `>>>`, do you think we should make the entire file consistent? 🤔

            /customers/details/?name=fred&age=7

        The ``headers`` parameter can be used to specify headers to be sent in
        the request. For example::

            >>> c = Client()
            >>> c.get('/customers/details/', {'name': 'fred', 'age': 7},

>             ...       headers={'Accept': 'application/json'})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            ...       headers={'accept': 'application/json'})
```

        If you set ``secure`` to ``True`` the client will emulate an HTTPS
        request.

        .. versionchanged:: 4.2

            The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers

>             without the ``HTTP_`` prefix.

Reviewer: Ditto in relation to my comment on the release notes.

        If you set ``secure`` to ``True`` the client will emulate an HTTPS
        request.

        .. versionchanged:: 4.2

            the ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers

>             without the ``http_`` prefix.

Reviewer: Not sure why the prefix in the case ended up lowercase?

    .. method:: Client.options(path, data='', content_type='application/octet-stream', follow=False, secure=False, *, headers=None, **extra)

        Makes an OPTIONS request on the provided ``path`` and returns a
        ``Response`` object. Useful for testing RESTful interfaces.

        When ``data`` is provided, it is used as the request body, and
        a ``Content-Type`` header is set to ``content_type``.

        The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers`` and ``extra`` arguments act
        the same as for :meth:`Client.get`.

        .. versionchanged:: 4.2

            The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers
            through a dictionary of names, without the ``HTTP_`` prefix.

    .. method:: Client.put(path, data='', content_type='application/octet-stream', follow=False, secure=False, *, headers=None, **extra)

        Makes a PUT request on the provided ``path`` and returns a
        ``Response`` object. Useful for testing RESTful interfaces.

        When ``data`` is provided, it is used as the request body, and
        a ``Content-Type`` header is set to ``content_type``.

>         The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers`` and ``extra`` arguments act
>         the same as for :meth:`Client.get`.

Reviewer 2: Previously these lines inconsistently used the [serial comma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_comma) - let’s use it consistently 😅

Also we should be consistent about the distinction between [parameters](https://docs.python.org/3.10/glossary.html#term-parameter) and arguments

```suggestion
        The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers``, and ``extra`` parameters act
        the same as for :meth:`Client.get`.
```

^ here and below

        .. versionchanged:: 4.2

            The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers
            through a dictionary of names, without the ``HTTP_`` prefix.

    .. method:: Client.patch(path, data='', content_type='application/octet-stream', follow=False, secure=False, *, headers=None, **extra)

        Makes a PATCH request on the provided ``path`` and returns a
        ``Response`` object. Useful for testing RESTful interfaces.

        The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers`` and ``extra`` arguments act the
        same as for :meth:`Client.get`.

        .. versionchanged:: 4.2

            The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers
            through a dictionary of names, without the ``HTTP_`` prefix.

>     .. method:: Client.delete(path, data='', content_type='application/octet-stream', follow=False, secure=False, headears=None, **extra)

Reviewer 2: typo and keyword only separator

```suggestion
    .. method:: Client.delete(path, data='', content_type='application/octet-stream', follow=False, secure=False, *, headers=None, **extra)
```

        parameter in order to comply with :rfc:`7231#section-4.3.8`, which
        mandates that TRACE requests must not have a body.

>         The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers`` and ``extra`` arguments act the

Reviewer 2: [Serial comma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serial_comma)! 😅

```suggestion
        The ``follow``, ``secure``, ``headers``, and ``extra`` parameters act the
```

asynchronous test client. This is available as ``django.test.AsyncClient``,
or as ``self.async_client`` on any test.

.. class:: AsyncClient(enforce_csrf_checks=False, raise_request_exception=True, *, headers=None, **defaults)

``AsyncClient`` has the same methods and signatures as the synchronous (normal)

> test client, with two exceptions:

Reviewer 2: It looks like `**defaults` isn't documented here *at all*, or for `AsyncRequestFactory`. It's not API-compaitble - it's added into the ASGI scope in `AsyncRequestFactory`:

https://github.com/django/django/blob/37c5b8c07be104fd5288cd87f101e48cb7a40298/django/test/client.py#L576

I think we should add a line here, and in `AsyncRequestFactory` explaining this, something like:

```
Arbitrary keyword arguments in `defaults` are added directly into the ASGI
scope.
```

I think this can added to the "list of exceptions" in the docs here for `AsyncClient`, but we'd want to make it clear that we're talking about `defaults` for the initializer, and `follow`/`extra` for the methods.

    ...     ACCEPT='application/json'
    ... )

.. versionchanged:: 4.2

>     The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers
>     through a dictionary of names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The ``headers`` parameter was added to support specifying headers
    as a dictionary of names to values.
```
